---
layout: post
title: Deciphering long lasting relationships
description: >
 In close relationships, it is becoming difficult for people to resolve issues. Unable to resolve the conflict, unpleasant things are said which cannot be taken back and sometimes which ultimately requires the help of a councillor. So am I saying that there is a way to avoid all of this while solving the issue without any exchange of unpleasantries? Yes I am. Period
sitemap: false
hide_last_modified: true
image:
  path:    /assets/img/usvsproblem/1.jpg
comments: true
---
{:.lead}

The above quote might seem so simple and many of might already make out what I am about to talk about. Enough intro, lets talk.

## The context

Consider a 100% pure and calm lake. Now a small contaminated water drop drops into this lake and causes ripples in the lake. The lake became disturbed for a while, but now has some impurity in it. The essence is not the same before. Suddenly, someone feeds this lake more and more such drops, thereby causing a regular disturbance ripple and increased amount of contamination. Now in this, replace the lake with your relationship and the dirty water drop with misunderstandings or heated fights with personal attacks.

Over the years, we have seen the increased number of nuclear families, short marriages and broken blood relationships. More often than not, especially in case of loved ones, it is miscommunication and improper handling of disagreements that has lead this unfortunate consequence. A small misunderstanding causes a heated debate which eventually leads to bitterness in the relationship, in most cases. You know what is worst? When the personal attacks come in out of anger.This is the lowest point. Once u start attacking each other personally, I would say all objectivity is lost, the main issue is anyway lost and you are ultimately nowhere forward. Sounds familiar? Happens to almost all of us I believe.

Consider a 100% pure and calm lake. Now a small contaminated water drop drops into this lake and causes ripples in the lake. The lake became disturbed for a while, but now has some impurity in it. The essence is not the same before. Suddenly, someone feeds this lake more and more such drops, thereby causing a regular disturbance ripple and increased amount of contamination. Now in this, replace the lake with your relationship and the dirty water drop with misunderstandings or heated fights with personal attacks.


## The quote

Let me elaborate a bit on the true meaning of the quote. Whenver you and your close one are faced with a disagreement ,a conflict, or a circumstance created problem, the EGO enters the arena. Sad but true. You have one thing in mind and the other has the polar opposite of it. What happens next? You both start argueing on why you are right, ultimately losing the real perspective and the problem behind. It becomes a UN level debate wtih him/her even though both of you want (world) peace. Pun intended. You feel you are right.Interjection to your opinion sparks heated conversation. And trust me, the conversation isn't lit. I know you must be thinking, does this guy have a point or just has a bunch of bad puns put together?


## So how do we do this?

You might be saying that easier said than done. How do we actually practice this?<br/>
We are built in a way that it is almost natural for us to engage all defenses when we as an individual are told we aren't right. Its the rejection reaction if I may say so. It is a very mature thing to do to actually acknowledge the opposite perspective and addressing it as viable or maybe correct a step further. Long story short, the meaning of "Us vs the Problem" rather than "You vs Me" is to realise that this issue you are facing is together. As one. In times of calamity,we forget simple things hence it is easier said than done. You remove your individuality since this is not only yours to handle, use the trust that you and your loved one have built. Focus on the problem rather than proving yourself right and winning the arguement. Infact, it shouldn't even be an arguement. Yes, clashes or differences of opinion don't have to be arguements or debates. Normalise conflict resolution through DISCUSSION rather than debating the motion as to who is right. 


## End notes

See the beauty of this discussion approach if i may call it so, is that its all in your control. Life rarely gives that, if I am being really honest. Your perspective, your attitude, your way of talking, its all YOU.To build this perspective takes time and patience. It also requires the cooperation of your partner or loved one. Speaking in a more practical manner, for every kind of problems in relationships you can do this. Your approach towards the conflict needs to be in a way you are addressing the problem, not fighting your solution on how to deal with it. You have to throw the dominating ego aside, DISCUSS the issue even though it may affect you more directly. Discussing instead of complaining or debating is the way I like to see it.<br/>
The most joyous consequence of this is that your relationship comes out stronger than before. You overcome issues by teamwork, which strengthens the bond. So basically what you just did is you played an UNO Reverse card on the adverse situation. And as a personal note, the satisfaction and joy of striding forward together makes you feel elated at a completely other level. After all, what is love, if not teamwork persevering?

